- [Woman] Now let us understand the concept
of forwarding in servlets specification.
All of the demos that we have implemented so far
follow this flow.
There's a requested ghost from the client
to the servlet, the servlet will extract
the request data, bundle it up in objects,
and call the dao.
The dao then talks to the database and returns
the data in the sublet.
The sublets are then going to prepared the response
and give it back to the client, which in turn,
is going to display it.
Now in this entire process, we have actually asked
the servlet to write the response back.
Often in a web application, all the requests
processing capability is never encapsulated
into a single servlet.
You often need to split up the functionality
across multiple servlets to make the code
more modular and maintainable.
In that case it is necessary to understand
how do you forward the control of the request
from one servlet to another?
Even in cases where the servlet is trying to
ready the response and give it back to the client,
we need to understand how do you forward the control
from the servlet to let's say a JSP file.
So far, we've not seen any JSP files, we always deal
with HTML's, but that's definitely a need that's
coming up in future.
So let's look at this diagram.
Whenever the user hits a request, it goes to your
application context.
Let's say that this requests functionality
is split across servlet.
So the request comes to the first servlet and
when the servlet does what it is supposed to do,
the request can be forwarded to the other servlet.
Not only this, in some cases the servlet can
also forward the entire request control
to another JSP.
Now be it a servlet or a JSP, they are all resources
of the application.
So this process by which you can forward the
request control from one servlet to another
servlet or from one servlet to another JSP
is exactly the concept of forwarding under the servlets
API.
Now let us look at a use case in our application.
What we are going to do now is, we are going to make
this login link functional.
For this, I have already got the login.jsp file
ready with me in my HTML folder.
Of course, right now it doesn't have any capabilities
of JSP, but I have just renamed it to a .JSP file.
This is that index.html, which has got the login link.
If I want to make that login link functional,
I can access that login JSP from here as a static resource.
How do I do that?
I just have to go ahead and embed the bot of that JSP
right out here, on line number 21.
Now, let's also go to login.jsp and take a look at it.
So it has got a header, it has got some details,
and a footer.
If you look at the resources that it has accessed,
for example, on line number seven, it is accessing
the CSS, on line number 17, it's accessing some image,
these spots that you see are the bots as for the
war structure that we've seen previously.
But now, in order to make this demo work,
I'm going to access these resources as well
in a static fashion.
So that's how I do it.
So let me get those bot changes on line number seven,
line number 17, and down there where you have the footer
on line number 59.
Now let's go ahead and run this application
and see whether our changes work correctly,
so I'm going to run this project.
Let's take this and go to our browser.
And run this.
Now when I click on login, do you see that I
reached the login.jsp file?
I accessed the login.jsp as a static resource.
Now please take a look at the URL.
If you observe the URL you'll see that the folder
details of login.jsp are visible out there.
This is not a very wise thing to do,
because we wouldn't want to reveal the implementation
details like that to the end customers.
Now, this entire scenario that we did right now,
I'm going to implement using our forwarding concept.
What we are going to do is, when I click on the login
link, I'm going to reach a login servlet, and from the
login servlet, I will go over to the login JSP.
So let's work that out.
Now, in order to do the forwarding, you need an API,
which is RequestDispatcher.
As the name suggests, it is going to dispatch
your request to another resource of the application.
You need to get the RequestDispatcher API
on the HTTPServletRequest object.
So let's get started with this demo.
I'm going to open my eclipse.
I have the login servlet ready with me,
which extends HttpServlet, and it has been annotated
with the URL pattern of login.
There's a doGet material on line number 15, and the
sole object of this meter is to reach that login JSP.
For that, I'm going to need the RequestDispatcher API.
So on line number 17, I'm going to take a reference of it.
I can opt in the object for this on the request object,
but in working in API called getRequestDispatcher,
and this will demand the part of that resource
where you want to go to.
(typing noises)
Once this is done, the next step will be
to call the RequestDispatcher.forward API to hand over
the request control to another resource.
So just getting the dispatcher reference would not be
enough, what we essentially have to do is
on the next line, which is line number 18,
I'm just going to invoke an API called forward,
and pass the request and response objects along with it.
This is forwarding.
You are in the login Servlet, but you're using
the RequestDispatcher to forward the control
to the login.jsp file.
So a question may float in the mind here as to why
are we including the request and response objects
when we forward the call?
That's because, let's say the current resource
wants to utilize request and response,
the other resource where you're forwarding to,
that may also need to use both of these objects
for let's say extracting the request data,
writing some more response, etc.
So even if this login servlet was not doing anything
with these objects, the next resource in line would
definitely need these.
That's exactly why the specification itself dictates
that whenever you forward the control
to another resource, make sure that the requested
response objects always go along.
Now let's come in index.html, get rid of the
static access of this, and embed the URL pattern
of that servlet, so that when we click here,
it takes us to the servlet.
On the login.jsp also, I need to stop accessing
these resources in a static fashion.
So let's do those changes.
This is line number 17, and that's line number seven.
So I'm going to go back to my previous changes.
Once this is done, let me now deploy the project
again and check the changes.
Now when I click on this login hyperlink,
let's see what happens.
Yes, I indeed reach the login.jsp file, but take a look
at the URL.
The URL only shows the login URL pattern,
and that's exactly why we are safe now.
It is not revealing any kind of implementation details
in the URL.
This exactly is the concept of forwarding.
There are a couple of other things in this.
There's another API called RequestDispatcher.include
that you can use.
Let's go back to our servlet and examine how to do this.
You are in the servlet, and on line number 19,
instead of forward, I am now going to call the include API.
What it essentially does is, it is going to combine
the response of this login servlet and the response
of this login.jsp file together and render it to the client.
In order to do this demo, just for the demo purposes,
I'm going to construct a small response
inside login servlet.
On line number 18, I'm just constructing a very small
HTML.
And under that HTML, let's write out a simple H3 tag,
which will display a message stating please login.
Let me end the H3 tag, and this string is ready with us.
Now we just need to get the writer object and invoke
the right API and stuff that HTML response inside that call.
So now, what is going to happen is
that this response, which is written out of the login
servlet, and whatever happens as a part of login JSP,
it's going to combine together, and it's going
to get rendered to the client.
So let's check the changes for this.
So now let's say I click on the login hyperlink.
Do you see what happened?
I got a message at the top, which is please login,
which is the response coming out of the login servlet,
and I also got the entire login JSP rendered
to the client, so this is a combination of response,
which is possible with the help of the include API.
So this is how RequestDispatcher works.
It's basically used to forward the control
from one resource to another resource, but do not forget
it is inside the same application.
And in this entire process, the browser will play no part.
Entirely, it's managed by the server site.
This approach is very commonly used in a framework
called Struts, where whenever you click on
a hyperlink, you always go to an action class
and from the action class, the request is dispatched
to a JSP.
That way, we are always safe, and we never reveal any
of our folder details in the URL.